---
title: Homework
module: 11
jotted: true
---

# Homework

This week, you are going to animate your self-portrait.  Now that you know how to make objects move back and forth, choose a few simple shapes to go back and forth along the x-axis.  Also, select a couple of your shapes to move along the y-axis, and at least one simple shape to move using both the x and y-axis.  Finally, make the title of your portrait get bigger five times and then smaller five times.  Repeat that forever.

<p><a href="//youtu.be/Xy1Cww1FFQI" data-lity>Homework Walkthrough Video</a></p>

Here is an example that does some of the following items below:
<a href="https://github.com/Montana-Media-Arts/120_CreativeCoding1-Spring2022-Samples/tree/main/Homework%2011" target="_new">Homework 11 Example</a>

Here is another example that shows how to get the x and y coordinates without having to calculate them or guess.  I put together a short example that should do that for you.  Go to the <a href="https://github.com/Montana-Media-Arts/120_CreativeCoding1-Spring2022-Samples/tree/main/Mouse-Coordinates-Example" target="_new">Mouse Coordinates Example</a> on GitHub.

Specifics:

1. Make at least two simple shapes in your self-portrait move back and forth along the x-axis.
2. Make at least two simple shapes in your self-portrait move back and forth along the y-axis.
3. Have the shapes move at different random speeds.
4. Make at least one shape move back and forth along the x and y-axis (diagonally).
5. Make the title of your self-portrait get larger five times and then get smaller five times. Repeat forever.
6. Take this <a href="https://kahoot.it/challenge/01482794?challenge-id=84387498-97d5-4d82-ae4e-eabb1c94cf58_1647535971739" target="_blank">Kahoot Challenge</a> and take a screenshot of your results.
7. Upload your project to GitHub and turn your link into Moodle.

**Want something extra to do? (extra credit)**

1. Change the colors of your shapes every time they hit the wall.
2. Change your name text so that it moves in a square pattern.
3. Make your head get bigger and then smaller continuously.
